# Covid-19-Impact-analysis-on-Canadian-Economy
This notebook is an attempt to analyze the impact of the Covid-19 on Canada and it's economic factors like GDP, CPI and Workhours over the months by using the datasets produced by the Statistics Canada. Statistics Canada, the Canadian government agency commissioned with producing statistics to help better understand Canada, its population, resources, economy, society, and culture.

We will be basically using three main indicators the GDP, CPI and the working hours and how they have been impacted by the covid-19 to analyze it's impact on the canadian economy. So before starting let's first try to understand what these indicators indicate:

GDP by industry: Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by industry is one of the three GDP series produced by the Canadian System of National Accounts (CSNA) of Statistics Canada. It is also known as the Output based GDP, because it sums the value added (output less intermediate consumption of goods and services) of all industries in Canada. A seasonally adjusted series is one from which seasonal movements have been eliminated. More information about this can be obtained from -https://unstats.un.org/unsd/nationalaccount/workshops/2009/ottawa/AC188-Bk4.PDF
Link to GDP data: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=3610043401

CPI: The Consumer Price Index (CPI) is not a cost-of-living index. We could compute a cost-of-living index for an individual if we had complete information about that person's taste and spending habits. To do this for a large number of people, let alone the total population of Canada, is impossible. For this reason, regularly published price indexes are based on the fixed-basket concept rather than the cost-of-living concept. More information about this can be obtained from - https://www.statcan.gc.ca/eng/subjects-start/prices_and_price_indexes/consumer_price_indexes
Link to CPI data: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1810000401

Workhours by industry: Actual hours worked is the sum of hours actually worked by all employed persons in the reference week. A seasonally adjusted series is one from which seasonal movements have been eliminated. It should be noted that the seasonally adjusted series contain irregular as well as longer-term cyclical fluctuations. The seasonal adjustment program is a complicated computer program which differentiates between these seasonal, cyclical and irregular movements in a series over a number of years and, on the basis of past movements, estimates appropriate seasonal factors for current data. On an annual basis, the historic series of seasonally adjusted data are revised in light of the most recent information on changes in seasonality. More information about this can be obtained from - https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1410028901
Link to workhours data: https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/t1/tbl1/en/tv.action?pid=1410028901
